[dramatic music]
BRIAN: To the lord of the underworld, Taliesin
Jaffe!
(cheering)
BRIAN: Yeah, yeah. Up next: steer clear of lava,
sharp drop-offs. She's the most fun in the world,
Marisha Ray!
(cheering)
BRIAN: And finally, the man whose brain spawned
all of this weirdness, Matthew Mercer!
(cheering)
BRIAN: Yeah.
MATT: Oh, hai. Adjusting our chairs the whole--
BRIAN: Yeah, we're going to be doing a lot of--
MARISHA: These are awkward chairs.
BRIAN: Get their money's worth. Well, we decided
that we're just going to do a Q&A for the hour, so
line up in an orderly fashion and--
MATT: Orderly. Calmly, respectfully.
MARISHA: Lifeguard rules. No running, concrete is
slippery.
BRIAN: A couple of guidelines really fast, if we
can, want to try to just do one question so we can
get through as many as possible. Then we're not
able to do selfies or anything like that because
of the rules.
(laughter)
BRIAN: And the distance, the sheer distance. But
yeah, we're going to try to get through as many as
we can, so let's do it! Please tell us your name
before your question, too, so we can know who you
are and put a name with that beautiful, beautiful
face.
ALEX: Hello? Is this on?
MATT: Oh! Can we get some audio on that mic, if
you don't mind?
BRIAN: Then we'll probably need that up here in
this speaker.
TALIESIN: Just keep saying random things until it
makes noise.
ALEX: Ooh, there we go. Hello.
MARISHA: Little bit. Little bit more, little
bit louder.
BRIAN: Can we get that in the weg so we can hear
the question?
MATT: Could you count down for us? Ten to one.
ALEX: Me? Okay.
MATT: Okay, count down in the microphone for us.
ALEX: Ten, nine, eight, seven--
MATT: We got it, all right, thank you.
ALEX: Awesome, there we go! Hello, I'm Alex.
MARISHA: Willing to walk the line for us, I love
it.
ALEX: Thank you. So my question is for the three
players and Matt. So when you're planning more
story arcs and sort of character directions for
all the different characters, like the de Rolo arc
that Percy had to go to, do you discuss that with
them beforehand to make sure it's okay with them
as their player or do you surprise them with it?
MATT: I mean, when the characters create their
backstories and such, I let them– they'll ask me
some semblance of the world and, you know,
locations and stuff, and I'll give them some
places they can pull from and they create from
there. Background elements, that's mainly their
creation, and then I incorporate and tweak things
as it goes. But as far as things that are coming
up in the story, no, I want to surprise them as
the character would know. I mean, if it's
something that I feel needs to be a discussion, I
don't want to-- if I feel that it'll deter or
alter heavily a direction they want to go with the
character, then maybe I'll be like, "Hey, how do
"you feel about me tweaking with something that you
had already established?" But, generally, I want
the character to experience it with the player and
vice-versa. So that really came to fruition with
the Briarwood arc.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I gave you about a page--
everything on Whitestone and everything with Percy
fits on about a page of relatively small type. It
was nothing that he wouldn't have already known.
There was no information on that page that Percy
didn't know, like nothing he didn't witness
himself. He didn't know who the Briarwoods were,
he didn't know what was happening, he didn't know
even-- I left it pretty open whether or not the
dream was a real dream or a demon or a whatever,
there was none of that information. At one point
I'm like, "I have a couple notes of things I want
"to add," and your response was, "Well, I would get
your shit together pretty quick." That was all I
was really given. I'm like, "Uh, okay. Why? Oh,
no!"
MATT: Yeah, the whole Orthax, the whole smoke
demon, that was not converted. It was just a dream
of some dark entity that inspired him, and
everything else extrapolated from there.
TALIESIN: It could have been just a dream. It
would've been-- that would've been interesting if
it had just been a dream and not really a thing
and it was just him being a terrible person.
That's great.
ALEX: All right, thank you so much. Oh.
BRIAN: Thanks, Alex.
MATT: Good question. Which, by the way, just out
of curiosity, raise your hand if you've not seen
any Critical Role or have any idea what it is. I
am so excited for you. You're going to be so
confused this entire panel, it's going to be
great.
BRIAN: This is not about Scientology. Just to let
you guys know.
MATT: But so you're aware, Critical Role is a
Twitch stream where a bunch of nerdy-ass voice
actors, present company included, play Dungeons
and Dragons once a week. So this is our D&D game
where we roll dice and get really geeky.
(cheering)
MATT: Sponsored by the Red Bull in my stomach.
Hello, what's your name?
QUINN: Hi, I'm Quinn, and bidet.
ALL: Bidet.
QUINN: My question is: has there ever been a
moment where the players went completely off the rails?
TALIESIN: (yelling) Let's go on a pub crawl, woo!
MARISHA: I was about to say: every Thursday.
MATT: Part of your role as a DM or GM is you're
trying to ascertain the probable direction they'll
take and prepare for that, and then try and
prepare for a couple of alternate scenarios.
Sometimes they'll shoot close to one of those, and
you can tailor some ideas to make it work,
sometimes they end up going directly where you
thought they were going and you're like: yes! Then
sometimes they'll go a complete 180 and you're
having to fly by the seat of your pants. There are
a number of times that happened. Let's see.
TALIESIN: Fire Plane was a big one, I remember.
You were almost irritated at the Fire Plane. You
were borderline irritated.
MATT: Well, I wasn't irritated, I was like: all
right, this is where we're-- I'm never irritated
by it.
TALIESIN: We spent weeks telling you we weren't
going.
MATT: Yeah. You were like, "Well, we're not going
there. We're not going there. We're going there."
I'm like, oh okay, guess we're going there. The
whole intro sequence of them arriving at the City
of Brass, the meeting of Senokir as an NPC. That
was all improvised. That whole sequence. I had
nothing prepared. Because I didn't think they were
going to go there. I had a semblance of some
things they might encounter in that area, but I
hadn't fleshed it out fully yet. So yeah, it
happens. Often. More often than you'd think.
BRIAN: Thank you. Hey, what's your name?
GILLIE: Hi! My name is Gillie. Welcome to MomoCon.
I have a question for our voice actors. Of all the
characters you have voiced-- major, minor, side
characters-- is there any one of those you would
play in a campaign, and why?
MATT: Huh. That's an interesting thought.
TALIESIN: My answer is cheap. I'm such a superhero
nerd and I'm such a Flash nerd and I would love to
do a superhero. I used to play Champions. I built
speedsters in Champions all the time. I loved
playing speedsters.
MARISHA: Margaret from Persona would be cool,
because she uses the tarot cards and is pretty
badass and powerful. Yeah, she'd be awesome. She
can fly.
MATT: I'd say probably Kiritsugu Emiya from
Fate/Zero. Because he's a combination of a really
awesome and powerful rifleman and assassin-type
character, but has some powerful self-altering
magics and just has an interesting disposition and
moral quandary about his character, so he'd be a
fun one to roleplay, definitely.
GILLIE: Thank you so much!
PANEL: Thank you! It was a great question.
WILLIAM: Hey, guys. It's William, it's been a
while since I've seen you.
MATT: Good to see you, man.
WILLIAM: Start off with a fun question from the
last episode. There were a lot of people in chat
debating how that fight was going to go, and who
was going to come out on top. Going into it, who
did you guys think was going to win, and what were
some abilities or items that you were thinking
might come up that didn't?
MATT: Okay, and let's preface this because some
people may not have seen the battle royale on
Thursday. Let's try not to spoil things,
necessarily. We'll try.
MARISHA: Eh. It's hard not to spoil things.
MATT: Okay, then do what you will.
MARISHA: They knew what they were getting into
when they showed up at this panel.
WILLIAM: Talks Machina is usually about the last
episode.
MARISHA: Right. I think everyone thought I was
going to win.
TALIESIN: Yeah, my money was on you.
MARISHA: I think Grog and I are actually going to
have a rematch because there were a few technical
errors that we both made. In an alternate reality,
Grog is at the bottom of the Water Plane drowning
right now. Furiously pulling out cards.
BRIAN: Why don't we just tell them what we're
going to do? Tell them what we're going to do, Matt.
MARISHA: You want to tell them? I think on an
episode of Talks Machina, probably pretty soon,
we're going to do a WWE-style one-on-one.
(cheering)
MARISHA: I want to make wrestling closet cosplay
versions of our character's outfits. Find some
green unitard to come out in.
BRIAN: I'll probably wear a tuxedo and be like:
are you ready-- Well, that's copyrighted.
MATT: I'll come dressed as Paul Bearer and be
like, one of you's going to die!
MARISHA: Yeah, I've already talked to Sean Becker.
We're going to do some WWE-style promos leading up
to it.
BRIAN: Yeah, it's going to be fun.
MATT: Grog versus Keyleth. One night only.
MARISHA: I feel like we knew that Grog and
Keyleth were going to be the two heavy people
going head to head.
TALIESIN: Throw down in Tal'Dorei.
BRIAN: We could put it on pay-per-view. Well,
that's kind of what Alpha is, I guess.
(laughter)
WILLIAM: And the second half of that, were there
any abilities or items that you were thinking
might come up that didn't in the fight?
MARISHA: Percy. Just all of Percy.
TALIESIN: I rolled so badly. I was just staring--
I rolled three ones, two twos, and only two rolls
over ten the entire game. I was like, everything's
broken, nothing's working, I'm paste. That's just
what happens.
MATT: The thing is, with you as well, you and Grog
both have the highest probability of taking down a
single person in one round of combat. You from
anywhere on the map, and between Bad News and a
well-rolled Violent Shot, you could probably kill
any member of the party, except for Grog, in one hit.
TALIESIN: I'll actually say, and also for people
who are asking, Percy doesn't carry the contract
with him. I know about the contract, and a lot of
people were like, why didn't you pull it out?
That would have not felt-- Percy would not have
done that, and he doesn't carry it because he
doesn't even want the temptation. That thing is
locked away. I think it's locked far away.
MATT: That's fine, you don't have to have it on
you to invoke the pact.
(laughter)
MATT: No, you actually do, it's in the paper.
WILLIAM: Thank you. Matt, you have a perpetual
standing offer--
BRIAN: Hey, that's three questions now bro! No, I'm
kidding.
WILLIAM: You have a perpetual standing offer
anytime I'm at a panel, if you want to use
Frostmourne as a prop or to kill Brian Foster,
you're welcome to ask.
MATT: I appreciate the offer, however I have
played Frozen Throne, and I know better. I've seen
what that sword--
WILLIAM: Frostmourne is always waiting.
MATT: No man, I spent way too long getting
Shadowmourne, okay? I'm having flashbacks.
Terrible flashbacks.
BRIAN: Hey dude, I forgot your name, but for
sassing me, come get a Thanks Keyleth pin.
(cheering)
MATT: Brian rewards sass.
TALIESIN: Thank you for encouraging sass.
RYAN: Hey guys.
MATT: Hey, what's your name?
RYAN: My name's Ryan. I didn't say it yesterday,
but I'm saying it today. So, first off, spice.
BRIAN: You've got to eat the mic, man, we can
barely-- sorry, the speaker is not very loud.
There you go. That's perfect. It's perfect.
RYAN: First off, spice.
MATT: Spice. Spice?
RYAN: For Matt, what is your favorite NPC to play
as? For the rest of you, what is your favorite NPC
to interact with?
MATT: Oh man. I have a few answers here, because
it's hard to put one in there. Allura is the most
self-insertion character I have in the campaign.
That to me is the most true to myself. Gilmore is
such a delightful character. I love playing as
him. Interacting as him. Raishan is such a
delicious villain to play as. Yeah, I'm not going
to say much more than that. Raishan was an amazing
villain to play. So those are my answers.
MARISHA: Selfishly, we're going to pick characters
that we interact with more. Sun Tree, man.
(laughter)
MARISHA: Hey, Sun Tree.
MATT: (as Sun Tree) "Thanks, Kiki."
TALIESIN: If I'm feeling awake and alert, which is
not every game, sometimes I'm tired, Victor's
always fun. But I've got to be prepared.
(cheering)
TALIESIN: I don't want to be tired and dealing
with that, because it's going to make my head hurt.
MATT: Your head hurt?
BRIAN: That's a good question.
RYAN: Taliesin, thank you, that's my choice, too.
MATT: (as Victor) "Learn from my mistakes!"
BRIAN: Hey, what's your name?
JUSTIN: My name is Justin, how are you?
MATT: Doing well, Justin. How about yourself?
JUSTIN: I had a quick question for Matt. I was
wondering if you could tell us what your most
memorable moment as a player of D&D would be.
MATT: Oh man, that's a great question. I'd have to
say... I was playing a dwarven fighter, my first time
playing a combat class, because I was always casters,
named Kradin Grimthorne who I named the Brawlers'
League dwarf who ended up representing you guys
after. I kind of used that character in this one.
But it was just playing a really angry, tough
little son of a bitch. At one point, we were
climbing down this big ravine where this magical
tower was at the bottom that was in the recess to
stay hidden. There was somebody in there we had to
talk to. So we were climbing down this hundreds
and hundreds of feet with our climbing gear, and
at that moment we started being assaulted by
wyverns that had nested into the side of this
hill. As they start running out, and swiping down
and attacking, the rest of the party is like, "Oh
my god, we got to go!" and they're all climbing
down quickly and trying to get down as fast as
they can. I was like, "No! I think one of these
"can hold my weight. I'm going to wait until one of
them comes for me." The DM was like, "Okay, you
"realize you're still 600 feet up from the bottom
of the ravine," and I'm like, "Oh, I know." So I'm
just holding my action, and holding my action,
with my hand on the rope, and one wyvern swipes in
to strike, I take the hits, and I'm like, "I
grapple him." "All right, roll for it." I grab on,
and I manage to get up onto the wyvern and onto
its back and clutch it by the back of the neck and
start trying to coast it into the side of the
ravine to try and control it and knock it a little
dizzy. I proceed to roll really well, then really
poorly, then really well, and in the process both
of us get bludgeoned by the side of the ravine
within an inch of our life. Eventually, getting it
down to the bottom before the rest of the party, I
actually swoop past them and they're all
screaming, "What are you doing?" I'm like, "Doing
what a dwarf does, win!" I slam it into the bottom
of the ravine and we both go tumbling over, I have
three hit points left, it's on the ground going
(snarling). It's trying to get itself back up, and
I walk up, pull out my ax and I'm like, "I win."
Shwoop, and I took its head off as a trophy, wore
it on my belt for a while. It got really stinky, I
didn't care, I wanted people to see what I did!
That was Grimthorne.
JUSTIN: Thank you very much.
(cheering)
BRIAN: That's the coolest story I've ever heard in
my entire life. Hey, what's your name?
DAMIEN: I'm Damien, or as I introduced myself to
you guys yesterday, the even more shitty Brian
Wayne Foster.
BRIAN: That's right. All right, you're getting a
Free Denise pin when you're done, so come up and
grab it after.
DAMIEN: This is my question for Matt. From one DM
to another, one of my favorite characters you've
ever introduced was Kynan. How do you create such
realistic and good NPCs in your campaign?
MATT: Part of what helps with the training of an
actor, is really what we do as actors is the study
of human beings, and the study of the human
condition, the complexities of a person, so coming
to it from that standpoint, when you create an
NPC, you think, okay, what abilities they have,
what classes they are, what their background is,
what faction they work for, are they good, are
they bad, what loot do they have, that's the core
skeleton. But then you consider, what are their
passions, what are their goals, what is it they're
ultimately trying to achieve, and how far are they
willing to go to achieve that? Then you consider
what are their deepest fears, what are the things
that drive them to desperation, what are the
things that drive them to flee, what are the
things that drive them to discard allies. Then you
begin to break down subtleties of their history
and their personality. Really, one of the keys you
come to is even villains have a reason to how they
got there. Really good villains are those that you
can understand why they became villains. It
doesn't mean you have to necessarily feel bad for
them, but there is a throughline of going, okay, I
understand why this individual became who they
are. Many villains don't see themselves as
villains, they see themselves as doing what's
necessary for the greater good, and not realize
the ramifications of their actions. So honestly,
studying characters, studying people, and a lot of
the basics of creating a character from a
performer's standpoint can work really well with
the creation of characters for your game, that
will feel more breathing and living and intricate.
In my opinion.
BRIAN: That's a great answer. Thank you very
much. Go ahead. What's your name?
NICK: My name's Nick.
BRIAN: Damien, get over here.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I was going to say.
NICK: So my question is for all of you. A little
bit of context: my character just finished a major
quest and it ended with them at a trial.
MATT: You need to talk a little closer to the mic,
sir.
NICK: Hello?
MATT: There we go.
NICK: So my players just finished a big quest
where they were accused of a crime, and they were
trying to prove their innocence. Well, they
figured it out and they accused the right person,
and at the end of it she was supposed to freak out
and scream at the party and go nuts as she was
about to be put to death, but when the moment came
I flopped, I got too nervous to scream at my
players and get in character. My question to you
guys is, as performers and especially as voice
actors, how do you guys get into a character and
just scream at them and kind of forget your
nervousness, your stage fright, especially as
voice actors. Because, I mean, when you were
Symphior, you were screaming your head off. I
don't know how I could have done that. How did you
guys get over that?
BRIAN: Did you catch that?
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Practice.
MARISHA: You kind of lose yourself, I think, a
little bit. Is my mic on?
BRIAN: Can we get the-- Is there someone at the
sound booth? Denise, is there someone back there?
Could we get our microphones in the wedges, and
then also the microphone that the people are
asking the questions from isn't really coming out
of here very loud, so it's a little-- If we can
just get all those up, all the way, I think.
'Cause whenever Marisha and Taliesin are talking,
all I hear is (gibberish).
MARISHA: I'm just going to project really loud.
You kind of, I think, lose yourself in it a little bit.
TALIESIN: One of the things that acting training
does, one of the first things they do, is they sit
down and go, "All right, we're going to work very,
very hard on removing all of your shame, because
you're not going to be able to do your job if you
have any of that."
AUDIO TECH: Ladies and gentlemen, we ask that you
please speak up when you ask the questions. You're
out in front of the speakers, we have to pick it
up to send it back to the stage. If you talk soft,
they can't hear you, and I am going to roll your
vocal mics into the monitors.
ALL: Thank you very much.
TALIESIN: But yeah. Removing that shame is not
easy, and is a long and arduous process that-- Oh,
hello. Yes, that's lovely. I wish I had a really
good cheat for it other than-- I started by
performing and getting weird in the car. That's a
great place to be weird, because no one can see
you, and then sometimes you notice people see you
and then you get okay with that, of just singing
something ridiculous. Kesha is good, I'm trying to
think who else. There's some good stuff sing to
feel really ridiculous.
MATT: You now all have the image of Taliesin
singing Kesha to himself in his car.
(cheering)
MARISHA: I mean, that's not a bad point though,
like karaoke, going out and dancing in public.
That's all little things that can help you get
more comfortable with making-- you're going to
look ridiculous every once in a while, and we all
will, and just embrace that.
TALIESIN: And weirdly, other people's reactions to
you being ridiculous will slowly make you feel
better, because it's never going to be the
reactions you're afraid of. It's actually
strangely positive, to be like, (crazy voice) "I
don't care, woo!" Because people go--
MATT: In the same way that you're saying, "I wish
I could let go like we do," other people will see
you and go, "I wish I could let go like you do."
It's a good feedback loop, and that just gets you
a little more comfortable with the idea that
sometimes that fear you have of people judging
you, one, doesn't matter, two, isn't what you
think it is, and three, it's a very freeing
experience to just express yourself for the pure
joy of what you want to express.
TALIESIN: It takes a while to beat that out of
your system, though. It's tough.
MARISHA: And we've also been playing these
characters for five years now. We know them inside
and out. We can just drop into them so easily,
which is why Taliesin can improv insane
monologues, or why I can scream at Raishan and try
and just plant myself in Keyleth's head. It
definitely takes time and reckless abandon.
MATT: And at the game table, remind yourself that
the players that are there for you are there for
you, they're supportive of you, and they're
engaging in the same way you are. If you're afraid
about getting that intense about it, just remind
yourself that they-- one, they will be blown away
when you do manage to cross that threshold, and
two, they're there to support you and want to see
you get into it as much as you want to as well. So
you have to remind yourself as best you can that
they're not going to judge you for it by any
means. They're there cheering you on.
MARISHA: And if they do, shame on them and find
another game group.
BRIAN: Shame!
(cheering)
TALIESIN: Thanks, Mom. That's the most mom advice
BRIAN: What's your name?
ELIJAH: Is it okay if I take the mic out?
BRIAN: Yeah, yeah.
MATT: As long as you put it back.
ELIJAH: It's not moving, so I'm just gonna crouch.
I'm sorry, because my friends are making me be
this guy, but can you say, "It's high noon"?
(groaning)
BRIAN: Oh, that is-- Do you have ten thousand
dollars?
(laughter)
ELIJAH: If I say yes, will you still do it?
MATT: (McCree voice) Oh, you know what time it
is.
(cheering)
ELIJAH: Okay, thank you!
MATT: (McCree voice) It's high noon.
(cheering)
MATT: There you go.
TALIESIN: I think I just won money on that one.
MARISHA: It's actually 1:25.
MATT: (McCree voice) It's 1:26.
ELIJAH: So my actual question is, recently I got
done doing a campaign with one of my friends, and
I was playing as a voidling; whoever he consumes,
he takes on part of their attributes. When it
comes to characters like that, where they adapt to
whoever they kill or consume, what type of
hindrances or recoils or feedbacks do you suggest
that I implement so he's not just like Gilgamesh
from Fate/stay: "Oh shit, let's just throw
infinite weapons! Yay!"
MATT: Well, I mean, things that you can consider
for balance are: if you're gaining attributes of
whatever you've eaten, does it replace the
attributes that you've previously devoured? So the
adaptation could be you only consume and take on
the attributes of what you've currently taken in.
That's a balance, so it's more of an adaptation
that switches as opposed to just a constant
building effect. Or they could be temporary:
whatever you consume, it affects your attributes
for a short period of time and then eventually
fades away. So you could bulk up and get pretty
powerful for a short time, but you can say that if
you consume more than three or four entities
within a short period of time, it could be
damaging or dangerous to your health.
TALIESIN: Maybe you also get their lowest
attribute as well. Like no matter what-- for
whatever bonus you get, you get pulled down as
well.
MATT: So considering those are possibilities, as
opposed to just being a character that, "Oh, hope
you guys enjoy your longswords. I'm just going to
eat the world and become a god."
(laughter)
ELIJAH: My character in the beginning, everybody
just kind of escapes from prison, so he
accidentally consumed the heart of a dragon god,
and it's the only attribute that stayed with him
the entire time. So is that kind of fair or am I
being kind of being god-ish?
MATT: I mean, it's up to you working with the GM
on what is fair and what isn't. Just because you
devour the heart of a dragon god doesn't mean you
now have the powers of a dragon god, it means you
have the potential to eventually unlock the powers
of a dragon god, so your journey could be learning
slowly over time how to unlock those abilities. So
you grow with the rest of the party.
TALIESIN: You'd just be very insufferable for a
while. I imagine that would be fun.
MATT: So yeah, there are ways to balance it but
the GM has to work with you on that and make sure
that it's in line, so that it doesn't feel unfair
for the rest of the players, but you still get to
play through those narrative elements in a way
that's fun for you and your character to
progress.
ELIJAH: All right, thank you. I didn't get to say
my name. My name is Elijah.
MATT: Thank you, buddy!
BRIAN: Hey, what's your name?
JOE: Hey, my name is Joe.
ALL: Hey, Joe!
JOE: My question is partially twofold. For Matt,
the character Taryon Darrington. How far in
advance did you know that he was going to pop up?
And for everyone else, how long did it take you to
get accustomed to him instead of the person that
he kind of replaced? I don't want to give spoilers
for somebody who hasn't seen it yet.
MATT: Yeah. Well, Sam and I had discussed Taryon
for about three weeks-- about two or three weeks
in advance, since the end of the Conclave arc--
and the scenarios that his character had gone
through that had led him to feel it might be
necessary, depending on how the conversation goes
with the rest of the party, of him to either stay
or leave. We had made this character as a backup
just in case he decided to leave. So we had met
and we had designed-- he told me the theory behind
the character of Taryon and what he wanted to him
to be, and I told him, "Well, that kind of fits in
with these classes," and the one he liked best was
the artificer. He was like, "Oh, that sounds
exactly what we're trying to do." And so he's
like, "I want to be a character that has very
little real-life experience but has enough money
to make himself powerful." So he became the trust
fund baby of D&D characters. From a mechanical
standpoint, Taryon, without any of his equipment,
is like level two, but put all of his equipment on
and he's level 14, 15, was our thought process
behind it. He made the character and had him in
the wings, and then based on whatever happened
that episode, it seemed that Sam decided to leave.
And as such, that very same episode we brought
Taryon in, which I think was a little sooner than
Sam was anticipating.
TALIESIN: He was not prepared. He was like, "Oh,
okay. This is apparently happening."
MARISHA: You went up to him during the break and
you were like, "All right, Tary, you're up." And
he was like, "What? No, next week." And you were
like, "Now."
MATT: You guys went there immediately, and it was
a good button for the episode.
BRIAN: He was looking at his half-filled-out
papers like, "What do I do?"
MATT and BRIAN: He did great.
TALIESIN: It took about three episodes to get
really used to, I feel like. Three episodes in, I
was like-- I thought it was good for us, because
we'd been worried about-- a lot of our players, I
think we're the only-- Us and Liam are the only
ones who've actually played any other character.
And so I think there's been a little bit of
nervousness about what's going to happen when that
happens, and I feel a lot better.
MARISHA: Yeah, people embraced it. The first two,
three games we were rejecting him like a noob.
TALIESIN: You are not my father! You don't get to
tell me what to do.
MATT: Good question, thank you.
BRIAN: Great question, thanks, Joe. Hey, what's
your name?
LAURA: Hi, I'm Laura.
ALL: Hi, Laura.
LAURA: Before I ask my question, I just wanted to
say thank you to all of you up there, except for
Brian.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: It's everything I could have hoped for
and more.
LAURA: I work as a night shift security guard, and
you guys fill my nights because I'm way behind.
TALIESIN: We are there for you.
LAURA: I am way behind on Critical Role, but I'm
working on it. I've been sitting at the edge of my
seat waiting for Grog to beat that half-orc and
crying my eyes out during the Briarwood arcs,
getting super excited with Keyleth going through
the fire rift. It was just so amazing, and I just
wanted to thank you so much for that, because it
makes my life better.
MATT: Thank you for coming along with us.
MARISHA: And sticking around for 100 episodes.
LAURA: For my question, it's kind of for all of
you, but it's a two-sided question. I'm been DMing
my own campaign and I feel like it's stagnating a
little bit because I've gotten a little frustrated
with my characters, with my players. Matt, what do
you do when everybody just either gets wonderful
rolls and is just blowing through everything, or
makes all the right turns over and over again,
even when you want them to go into the wrong way
because you want to torture them? Taliesin and
Marisha, how do you guys know when you're doing
that to Matt?
MATT: To answer your question, what happens if
there is no right way? What happens if every path
is the really wrong, horrible, torturing way?
TALIESIN: Kobayashi that stuff. Blow it up.
LAURA: And your dragonborn jumps down a pool
that's 600 feet and drowns on the way back up.
That's what happens.
MATT: Exactly. And let that be a lesson to him.
It's a delicate balance, being a GM or a DM. It's
creating challenge without feeling like it's
unfair, and not challenging them all the time,
because you want the players to also have time
where they feel like they're having a good time,
or they're kicking ass and enjoying the battle, as
opposed to always being under the threat of
constant bludgeoning death. You have to find that
balance.
BRIAN: Like Taliesin just said about consequence
versus punishment, too. Tell these people that,
because we were in a room with different people.
TALIESIN: We were in a press room. A good DM, in
my opinion, knows the difference between
consequence and punishment. You don't punish your
players for making the wrong decision. You don't
punish them for going off the rails. You don't
punish them for staying on the rails. You create
consequence. There was a guy up a second ago who
was talking about that all his players got accused
falsely of a crime and then they found the real
guilty person and dealt with it, he was talking
about that. What if most of the world still
doesn't know they found the right person and just
all assumes that they're guilty and still got off
and just treats them like dirt? For months? That
would be amazing. And now they're just ostracized
and everybody hates them.
MATT: I was about to say, what if they get to the
guilty person and the guilty person kills
themself, and they're found with the dead body of
the guilty party with no way of proving innocence,
and they have another body on their hands to now
have to flee the town.
BRIAN: You've thought about this.
TALIESIN: Make life be unfair. Like, just be
unfair. Don't be mean, but you can stack the odds
against them. I love "No right answer." Kobayashi
that. Terrible situations where something awful is
going to happen no matter what.
MATT: And remember, if they're always rolling well
and they're always just blowing through every
encounter, throw a couple tarrasques at them.
(laughter)
MARISHA: What are you two talking about?!
MATT: It's called teaching humility.
BRIAN: Wow. Wow! All right, Laura, come up here,
'cause you got the How Do You Want To Do This pin
signed by--
(cheering)
MATT: You look awesome, by the way.
ROB: Hello.
MATT: Hello. What's your name, sir?
ROB: My name's Rob.
MATT: Rob, hello!
ROB: Matt, thank you so much for bringing all of
your friends here. Glad you came last year, glad
you brought more of the crew. And Brian, I don't
know what problem Laura had with you, I'm so glad
that you and your hair are here. You put on your
beard today.
BRIAN: Thank you. Yes, it's velcroed on. Thank
you, that's really sweet.
ROB: You pull it off. Every night before you go to
sleep.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: They're learning. I'm so proud. They're
learning.
BRIAN: Let me see what this guys gets. Hold on.
Let me get my wallet out, there. All right, you'll
get a Free Denise pin, too, after.
ROB: My question is to Golden Gods and Life Needs
Things to Live. I know you guys started this game
back in Pathfinder and transitioned to Fifth
Edition, where it rewards you for coming up with
every little thing about your character:
personality traits, flaws, bonds, ideals, and
such. But over the course of the game, you tend to
discover more things about your character than
were there in the beginning. So what is something
that, while playing under Matt, has surprised you
about the character that you created?
MATT: That's a cool question.
BRIAN: That's a fantastic question.
MARISHA: Especially, kind of like we were saying,
we've been playing these characters for so long
that they're having the life of people. I know
I've probably changed a lot in five years, and
these people are put in very extreme
circumstances, so I think you just have to be open
to that. We all have our core values that we stick
to, and then you have to let the world still
affect you.
TALIESIN: Your reality with Kerrek, I remember,
changed your whole plotting quite a bit. You were
getting kind of aggro.
MARISHA: Yeah. There was a time where-- because
when I started Keyleth, she was naive and juvenile
and just thought that the whole world was like a
magical Disney forest filled with animals and
things that loved me, and then the reality is
that's not the case at all. And there for a while,
she was getting very angry because that was just
the way the world was beating down upon us for a
while, getting angry at the fact that, why did no
one tell her about this? And it wasn't until Kerr
stepped in as that substitute father figure to--
and, at the time, Vox Machina, you guys were being
total dicks to Keyleth! You were like, "Deal with
it, druid." You were!
TALIESIN: Oh, no, I remember.
MARISHA: And he was the first one who-- because
that's when she was having panics about, "We're
not heroes. Look at the trail of destruction we've
left behind us!" And he was the first one to
relate to Keyleth on that level. So there were
several things. There was dealing with the fact
that I felt like my party wasn't really supporting
Keyleth at the time, that my people who were
supposed to be my closest friends, and then there
was this guy who was just a guest who came in for
an episode who totally changed everything. Because
I was getting really heavy into almost dropping
points of barbarian into Keyleth and having her be
like, "Screw it! I'm done. I'm done with all of
this. Why do we need to do any--" And just get
angry. But then he put her back on that track,
which was good.
TALIESIN: I call your current track, in my head,
it's the "be the Lisa Frank you want to see in the world."
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Come on, guys! It's pretty good.
MARISHA: Let's make a more rainbow tomorrow!
TALIESIN: Hey, Sun Tree. Yeah. One of my core
principles-- I like that D&D has those little
Fifth Edition boxes, but I always see that as
either-- and there's nothing wrong with training
wheels, we all need them-- as a good way of
helping you be--
BRIAN: There's nothing wrong with training
wheels.
TALIESIN: There's nothing wrong with training
wheels. Sometimes, if you haven't been acting for
30 years, it's nice to have a box that teaches you
some basics. Or if you're playing a one-shot, it's
a good way of remembering who you are and what
you're doing, which is important for anybody. But
I've never filled those boxes out for Percy at
all. I don't think any of us filled any of those
boxes out.
MATT: By the time we'd gotten over the edition
transition, you knew the characters so well and
what those were, you didn't need to--
TALIESIN: Unless I'm playing a one-shot, I never
fill those out anyway.
MARISHA: One of the best times I've seen those
boxes utilized, though, those background boxes,
was with Dan Casey on the one-shot that you did. I
think it was episode 12, I think that's still out
there. We watched Dan Casey roll, because they're
all numbered to where you can roll a d8, so if
you're really confused and you don't know, you can
roll a d8 and be like, "Four, okay, I'm paranoid
of water." So he rolled, found the things, and
then came up with a backstory and that was how he
got Salty Pete, who was a dual-wielding pirate
sellsword.
TALIESIN: It's a great episode.
MARISHA: It was a great character with a
background that he didn't get so stuck and caught
on what it was going to be that it didn't allow
him to still have fun.
ROB: That was the first episode with the
Snugglelord, right?
ALL: Yes, it was.
MARISHA: When you were walking people through.
TALIESIN: Yeah, Percy was supposed to never be
happy. That was one of his core character traits,
is somebody who will never be happy with himself
or the world around him, and will always be, on a
core level, irritated at himself and others.
Mostly himself. And not anymore! I was like, what
happens if he just lets that go finally and is
like, fine, forget it. I deserve a little
happiness. He's getting dangerous. I'm enjoying
it. Something's going to snap terribly. I'm really excited.
MATT: Happy Percy is a bad idea.
MARISHA: It's true, your sorrow contained you.
TALIESIN: Yeah. All it took was a bad
relationship, a really inappropriate relationship,
to ruin everything. I'm so excited.
MATT: That's usually how it works, though, in real
life.
TALIESIN: Oh no, it really is! It's such a
flashback to 22, 23. It's great.
BRIAN: That's a great question. Come collect your
pin, please.
MATT: Hello again.
Lee: Hello! My name's Lee.
MATT: Hi, Lee!
LEE: Last night I told you guys about my drow
sorcerer who is currently a potted plant.
MARISHA: Oh, that's right. Speak with Plants.
LEE: Yeah, so that's fine. I have a question for
Matt. How long have you sat on the major events
for Vox Machina? The Briarwoods, the Chroma
Conclave, whatever we're going to get with the Orb
of Doom. How long have you been sitting on these
and waiting?
MATT: The Briarwoods I've been sitting on since
Percy gave me his character backstory. The minute
he turned that page in, and I read it, I was like,
oh, this is going to be so sweet when we get to
it. It's going to be so good. The Conclave I've
been sitting on for about two years before I
dropped on that, because when I began to develop
them-- My main reason for doing the Conclave was
I'd been DMing for so many years and I just didn't
use dragons. This game is called Dungeons &
Dragons, and I never got around to really using
big ancient dragons. I've always wanted to do that.
BRIAN: Why? Because you never played long enough
for the campaigns to--
MATT: Because some campaigns ended before I could
get to that power level. I didn't want it being
like, oh, you're fighting a baby dragon, ooh! I
wanted big, scary, classic dragons, but the
campaigns didn't go on long enough, or
thematically the dragons didn't fit for it. The
villains and the world where they were, it would
have felt shoehorned if I put them in there. So I
was like, I'm not just going to bring a dragon,
I'm going to bring all of them in, bring one of
each chromatic dragon. I decided that would be a
Conclave, but they would never work together. What
would bring them together? It would be the one,
the dominant, the alpha essentially, which is the
Thordak character, and Raishan being the sly
manipulator, and the combination of those two
would make it a tenuous agreement between this
Conclave. I developed this and realized, in order
for this to be impactful, it has to be at a time
when they're at the height of their success. When
it feels like everything is fine and good. So I
sat on it and I set the scene, I began to plant
the seeds of its eventual release, and then waited
for them to complete a series of arcs.
TALIESIN: Waiting for Liam to make that speech.
That was amazing.
MATT: That was amazing! I'm sitting here, like,
they're back in Emon, they had their celebration,
they were all lauded before the people of Emon.
They were having a crisis, an existential crisis
of, "What do we do now? What holds us together?
What are we? What purpose do we have? Are we still
adventurers? Have we done any good in the world? I
don't know what's going on."
MARISHA: Because arguably if there's no
adventuring for Vox Machina, we're just a group of
shitty people.
BRIAN: Who eat douchebags for breakfast.
TALIESIN: That's the next t-shirt: Just a group of
shitty people.
MARISHA: The adventuring has to be happening or
we're just awful.
MATT: To be fair, so is most any adventuring
party, and I think you can all attest to that.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah. Tary points it out a lot, which
I really enjoy, of like, you're terrible people.
Yes, we are! Woo!
MATT: So yeah, it takes a lot of patience to sit
on a story that long. I remember that episode when
Liam said that, when he's like, "What are we going
to do, what's next? I feel like there's no
purpose." I'm like, ooh, man! Give me like 40
minutes!
(laughter)
MATT: So yeah, that was amazing.
BRIAN: Great question.
MATT: The sphere thing is coming to fruition
slowly now, and I've been sitting on that since I
was designing the Briarwood arc.
TALIESIN: Long time.
MATT: That one I've probably been sitting on the
longest.
TALIESIN: I was about to say, maybe the sphere is
not going to come up until the next campaign for
all we know. I have no idea.
MATT: Yeah. We'll see where it comes up.
LEE: All right, thanks..
BRIAN: Such a tease. Hello. What's your name?
CHRISTEN: My name's Christen.
MATT: Hi, Christen.
CHRISTEN: Hello.
TALIESIN: Bend it to your will. There you go.
MATT: You look awesome, by the way.
CHRISTEN: Thank you. The question is technically
for all of y'all. If you could choose another
class besides the one that your character is, what
would it have done, and how do you think it would
have affected their progression?
MARISHA: Oh, interesting. Same characters,
different class?
MATT: Player. That's my class.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Oh, just a player, nice. I think maybe
if Percy had never become an engineer, I would
have loved to have stayed in fighter class, but
maybe a fighter class and become like a really
poncy fencer, which would have been in the Errol
Flynn style. "Ha ha!" Just can't build anything. I
don't know, because he thinks magic's weird. The
rules are all mish-mosh.
MARISHA: I don't know. I was mentioning earlier if
I would've dropped points of barbarian in Keyleth
and gone a half-and-half route. Then gone more of
a melee brawler. Because I could rage and go into
my beast shaping forms, and then get all the bonus
that Grog gets when he rages. So it would be nasty
and awesome, but she would have gone off the
rails. I think it would have caused a lot of her--
I don't think it would have been attractive on
her. It would be Keyleth as a nihilist. I don't know--
TALIESIN: You would be an angry nine-year old.
MARISHA: Yeah. She would have been like: What's it
all matter? Meh.
TALIESIN and MARISHA: Somewhere in the darkest
timeline.
(laughter)
MATT: Thank you.
CHRISTEN: Thank y'all. Thank you.
BRIAN: Hey, what's your name?
STEPHANIE: Hello. My name is Stephanie.
CAST: Hi Stephanie.
TALIESIN: Nice Chun-Li.
MARISHA: Aww, you're so cute!
STEPHANIE: Don't make me blush, come on!
(laughter)
STEPHANIE: All right, my question is for Brian,
but it could also be answered for all of you guys, too.
MATT: Only for Brian.
BRIAN: Are you in law enforcement?
STEPHANIE: Spoilers. This is spoilers, it's from
Thursday's episode. When Grog pulled out the Deck
of Many Things, what was your reaction, since we
clearly saw Matt, Marisha and Taliesin's reactions
on Twitch?
BRIAN: So I've known Travis for almost ten years,
and I know him so well. We'll hang out not doing
anything related to Critical Role, and the deck
comes up, I would say, every 20 minutes.
(laughter)
BRIAN: I'll be talking to Travis about football or
a movie or something, and then you'll start to see
this drifting happen. Sometimes if Laura's there,
she'll say, "Are you thinking about the deck?"
He's obsessed with this deck thing. The battle
royale is one thing, I am really interested to see
what happens in the real game.
TALIESIN: It's not that we're nervous about Grog
having the deck. If anything, it's that we're
nervous about Travis having the deck.
BRIAN: That's exactly right. That's what terrifies
me. If you tell Travis, "There's a poisonous snake
inside this thing of Red Bull," he will bite it in
half, drink all of the Red Bull, and not touch the
snake and go, "Well, if I don't get poisoned--
it's 50/50. I could win, I could lose." He always
plays the odds and that's why the deck, he's so
obsessed with it. Because he goes, "It could
either go perfectly, something could be great, we
could have a great weapon or something come out,
or everybody dies." If everyone dies right in the
middle of Keyleth's, "We're gods-- we're dead!"
because of the stupid deck. I can't wait to see
what happens. I hope it's a TPK.
MATT: When I rolled the decks, I was like, "I'm
never putting any of this in a campaign! It ruins
the narrative." Then I rolled it on a random
treasure table when they defeated Thordak. I was
like (sighs), "Well, it's the smaller version of
the deck so it doesn't have the super world-ending
cards. Still pretty awful. Usually it's Laura or
Percy that investigates the treasure hoard first.
So at least I know a player with some intelligence
is going to find it." So that went well. He rushed
there first and rolled so high I was like, "Well,
okay. Here we go!"
BRIAN: I'll tell you a funny behind-the-scenes
story that night with the deck. All of us near the
control center where all the smart people sit,
they let me sit by them. When the deck thing
happened, one of the producers Eddie, who wears
headphones and is deep into the computer, but he
knows everything there is to know about D&D. A lot
of us didn't know the deck was. A lot of us
backstage were, "Why is everyone freaking out?"
Because Liam was going-- and then everyone else
was just whatever. I was just sitting there and
then they were like, "Oh, is there a deck? Is
there a whatever, you know?" Then everybody's
telling me it looks like it's actually going to
come into the game. Eddie threw his headphones off
and was like--
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I can see that so clearly in my head.
BRIAN: I Googled so fast. Then they have the list
of what each of the-- and I was like, "Okay, oh my
god." My first thought was, "Travis!"
TALIESIN: I think the deck in the battle royale
was my fault, because every game, I distribute--
we get a lot of mail. It's mostly in my room. I
live in it now. There's more mail in my room than
furniture. It's one of the reasons I don't
livestream very often anymore. I look like a hobo.
BRIAN: He's like Scrooge McDuck, except with
envelopes.
TALIESIN: Yeah, except it's just paper. I'm like,
"Ah! Papercuts! God!" I distribute a little of it
every week, and that deck that he had, that is
what I had given him. I was like, "Here, you're
going to dig this!" and I gave him the deck with
the letter. It might not have been in his
consciousness if I hadn't handed him a physical
deck.
MATT: Well, it's fine, because his use of the deck
in the battle royale was a safe place to use it
and to learn that there are a lot of consequences.
Or not; he pulled the cards with no consequences!
MARISHA: You sound like a begrudging father trying
his best to give a sex ed talk. Like, it was a
safe place to learn the consequences.
TALIESIN: So you lock the kid in his room with a
crate of scotch and open it an hour later, the
scotch is gone, and he's like, "I feel great!"
You're like, "That did not work!"
MARISHA: Well, and the other crazy thing is
because he was like, "I pull five cards!" and I
was like, "What?" Matt and I were looking at the
rules, and in the book they don't state that there
is a limit to how many cards you can draw in a
turn. So now I have this nightmarish image in my
head of Grog doing like a card flourish and 52
card pickup of the Deck of Many Things.
MATT: Exandria goes (poof). Gone.
TALIESIN: If you can't tell, we talk about this a
lot. This is a subject of conversation. I feel
bad, we've actually held the line now. Sorry.
STEPHANIE: Thank you so much.
BRIAN: Thank you for addressing it to me and
making me feel like I have a purpose in this world.
STEPHANIE: But you're awesome!
BRIAN: I'm just kidding, I know.
TALIESIN: Don't encourage him.
BRIAN: Look at this beard. I'm just kidding.
TALIESIN: I meant to wake up and shave it this
morning, I feel really bad about it.
BRIAN: You tried, but I had the deadbolt locked!
Go ahead!
MELISSA: Hello.
BRIAN: Hey, what's your name?
MELISSA: Hi, I'm Melissa.
BRIAN: Hey, Melissa!
MELISSA: Hi! I'm a first-time GM for a Pathfinder
game.
MATT: Awesome!
MELISSA: I've noticed how hard that was when I
first started as my very first game to GM. But I'm
also taking improv classes to get better at GMing.
I have a question for all you guys as professional
actors. There's a long-form improv format created
by Mark Meer. It's like a long-form improvised D&D
format. Have you guys been interested in actually
doing something similar, like putting Dungeons &
Dragons on a stage rather than through a stream?
MATT: Well, it's funny that you mention that. Not
in a stream per se, but years ago -- there's a
long-running show in Los Angeles called Dungeon
Master that was just that. Still going! A lot of
our friends ran it and so a few of us would be
guests on it occasionally.
TALIESIN: I guested a couple times on Dungeon
Master. Then there was a sci-fi spin off that we
did for several years.
MATT: Called Adventure! The three of us were all
cast members. We'd all-- every week was a
different storyline, a continuation of last week's
storyline. We all, the cast, played different NPCs
with costumes and set pieces, and then five people
from the audience would be pulled up as player characters.
TALIESIN: They would be in costume with character
sheets that they'd filled out, and they would play
through the game, and we would be the NPCs.
MARISHA: Yeah, and we would generally like get
them killed or something horrible.
MATT: The characters, not the people! None
of this is legally binding, you heard nothing.
MARISHA: No one was harmed during the making of
Adventure.
MATT: Erase the tape.
TALIESIN: It was a pretty solid-- there was some
great stuff. You in the evil Disney World was one
of my favorites. She played a psychotic, murderous
Tinkerbell with a baby in a bag that she would
beat on the ground to get people's attention. It
was amazing. It was one of the best things I've
ever seen in my-- it was so hard to keep my shit
together with you with a shank and the baby in a
bag. The makeup smeared.
MARISHA: Out of context, this sounds awful.
TALIESIN: "Everybody smile!" Oh, it was so good.
BRIAN: I'd pay five dollars extra a month to watch
that show.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: It was an amazing show.
MARISHA: It was good! It was good fun.
MATT: It was a lot of fun stuff.
TALIESIN: Is Dungeon Master still running?
MATT: Yeah, Dungeon Master is still running.
MARISHA: Yeah, so if you're ever in LA, you can
check out a Dungeon Master show.
TALIESIN: They put stuff on YouTube every now and
then, too.
MELISSA: Very cool. Thank you guys!
BRIAN: Okay, I think this is our last question.
(groaning)
BRIAN: Well, I don't know! Normally, there's
people that hold up a sign and then they give you
an angry look.
TALIESIN: They haven't done that yet.
BRIAN: Maybe we just keep going. All right, this
guy's waiting. Sorry guys, we tried, go ahead.
BRENDAN: Hi, I'm Brendan.
MATT: What's your question?
BRENDAN: I was going to ask what your favorite
character arcs are, besides your own? So not the
Briarwoods, the Aramente, or the Chroma Conclave.
For Brian, your favorite character arc.
TALIESIN: Fire Plane. Fire Plane for me.
MARISHA: Yeah. All the Raven Queen stuff. It was
cool.
MATT: I was actually going to say that, because he
was planning to go paladin of Sarenrae. Through a
chance resurrection ritual, the death of his
sister, and a spontaneous pledge he made as that
process led his path entirely different to instead
pursue the path of the Raven Queen. This is the
reason I love D&D, you can't plan for that. A
couple of die rolls and a spontaneous character
choices and an entire character's planned destiny
that you thought they had goes in another
direction, and now you're following that element.
I thought was a really cool switch.
BRIAN: The end of Scanlan's arc before he left, I
think. It made Sam and I closer as friends because
of my past. We got to have a lot of conversations
about something that he didn't really have any
experience in because he's a green baby with no--
he doesn't live on the edge like me. I would say
that arc really was powerful and that speech he
made at the end, I still think about that as
character work and as a piece of acting that was
insane, in my opinion.
TALIESIN: Yeah, definitely. We were not prepared.
BRIAN: Thank you very much. All right, one more!
MARISHA: Make it good!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: This is somewhat for Matt and
also for Marisha and Taliesin. Matt, as a DM whose
characters went 180 degrees, I had to create a
combat encounter map off the top of my head, what
is your favorite DM recovery moment of going like,
"Oh shit, I had not planned for this. What can I
do?" For you guys, what is your favorite moment of
you knowing you screwed up plans somewhat and
watching him stumble?
TALIESIN: We can't tell. He doesn't flinch. He's
like that guy who can hold his hand over a candle
and maintain eye contact.
MARISHA: Yeah, we never see him stumble. We never
know if we're doing something off the rails, where
we're just going and shit.
TALIESIN: It didn't even occur to me that that pub
crawl was going to be out of his-- like he was
going to have to pull that out of nowhere until
like an hour and a half into it. I'm like, "Oh god."
MARISHA: I'm still pretty partial to Vex and
Keyleth and Laura and Marisha being like, "Screw
you guys!" when you guys didn't want us to go off
in the Underdark in the very beginning.
TALIESIN: Oh, that was great! On the carpet!
MARISHA: Then we went and found Clarota, which I
don't think we were supposed to find him that
soon, or ever, potentially. Finding Clarota, that
was cool.
MATT: Yeah, that was fun. That was definitely one
of the big off-throws, like, "Okay, well, this is
an NPC that they probably weren't going to meet,
or if they were going to meet, it was going to be
much later and it was probably just going to be a
battle. But they convinced to join them. They now
have an actual arcane magic-using mindflayer in
their party. Sure." Actually, I've thought about
this recently, I forgot about it, but when they
were in the Moonbrush in the Feywild, I was not
expecting you guys to side with the werewolves.
MARISHA: Oh, yeah!
MATT: You guys came in and fought and slaughtered
the pixies. That was fully improvised. That was
fully like, "Okay, let's do this. You guys are
going to kill a bunch of pixies against the trees.
MARISHA: They were mean pixies.
MATT: Oh yeah, well pixies are generally not-- you
hear pixies like, "Aww, that's so cute, they're beautiful!"
TALIESIN: No!
MATT: They're also kind of dicks. Most things that
are fey are. They are selfish little entities that
expect things to work however they want.
MARISHA: And Vox Machina is also a selfish entity
that gets very defensive and takes things personally.
MATT: When an unstoppable force meets an immovable
wall! Those are a few examples there, definitely.
Good question!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I just want to give you this!
ALL: Okay!
TALIESIN: Hand it to Brian because it's always
funnier.
BRIAN: This is a subpoena. Yeah, we have a
signing, so bring everything to the signing. Or
give it to Ginny if you're not coming to the
signing.
MARISHA: That's Ginny! You'll see her, she'll
know.
TALIESIN: She knows where we are at all times.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Marisha, before you go, please
cast regenerate on Tyriok, give him his arm back please.
MARISHA: Oh, he's fine!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Come on, he's right there!
MARISHA: He's fine! It gives him character.
TALIESIN: He wears it well.
MATT: It wasn't his drawing arm.
TALIESIN: If anything, I think it makes his maps a
little better. He's trying harder. Oh god, I'm so
mean, I know. I feel bad about that arm, I do.
MARISHA: I do feel a little bad. I should probably
fix that.
TALIESIN: I could build him something.
MARISHA: You could make him a mechanical arm!
TALIESIN: I'll make him a robot arm.
MARISHA: That's way cooler than a real arm.
MATT: This is your other legacy; firearms and
prosthetics. That's what Percy has done in Exandria.
TALIESIN: I've made really nice roads. It's true.
The roads in Whitestone are great now.
MARISHA: Oh yeah, I can't believe you made heated
roads.
MATT: Well, they're starting to. It's going to
take a while.
TALIESIN: It's going to take a while, but we've
already got several of the main throughways. It's great.
MATT: Thank you guys so much for coming!
BRIAN: Thank you guys for coming, thank you for
waiting, see you at the signing! There is also a
signing tomorrow. Check your local listings. We
love you guys.
MATT: We are signing tomorrow at 12:30 to 2:15.
BRIAN: 12:30 to 2:15.
MARISHA: So if you don't see us now, we'll see you
then. Thanks, you guys!
MATT: Oh god, these chairs!
[elevator music]